FLIP - Flow Client Library (FCL) Wallet Provider Specification (#45)
onflow/flips: application/20221108-fcl-wallet-provider-spec.md

# Flow Client Library (FCL) Wallet Provider Specification

| Status        | Proposed                                    |
| :------------ | :------------------------------------------ |
| **FLIP #**    | [NNN](Link to FLIP)                         |
| **Author(s)** | Greg Santos (greg.santos@dapperlabs.com)    |
| **Sponsor**   | Justin Barry (justin.barry@dapperlabs.com ) |
| **Updated**   | 2022-11-08                                  |

## Objective

> This FLIP proposes a v1.0 specification for FCL Wallet Providers and dApps to trustlessly interact for the purposes of authentication, and transaction and message signing on Flow. It aims to provide a comprehensive description of the communication protocol and the required features and functionality expected to perform these functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This FLIP proposes a v1.0 specification for FCL Wallet Providers and dApps to trustlessly interact for the purposes of authentication and producing signatures on Flow. It aims to provide a comprehensive description of the communication protocol and the required features and functionality expected to perform these functions.
```

> The goal of this FLIP is to solidify existing implementation patterns and data definitions in a generalized way. Additionally it should open discussion to potential improvements for future versions of the spec in order to simplify and support Flow dApp and wallet development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal of this FLIP is to solidify existing implementation patterns and data definitions in a generalized way. Additionally it should open discussion to potential improvements for future versions of the spec in order to evolve the Flow dApp and wallet ecosystem.
```

    f_vsn: "1.0.0",
    type: "back-channel-rpc",
    endpoint: "https://____", // where post request will be sent
    method: "HTTP/POST",
    data: {},   // included in body of request
    params: {}, // included as query params on endpoint
  },
  local: {
    f_type: "Service",
    f_vsn: "1.0.0",
    endpoint: "https://____", // the iframe that will be rendered,
    method: "VIEW/IFRAME",
    data: {}, // sent to frame when ready
    params: {}, // included as query params on endpoint
  }
}
```

A `PollingResponse` can alternatively be constructed using `WalletUtils` when sending `"APPROVED"` or `"DECLINED"` responses.

```javascript
import {WalletUtils} from "@onflow/fcl"

// Approving a PollingResponse
// Example using an AuthnResponse as the PollingResponse data
WalletUtils.approve({
  f_type: "AuthnResponse",
  f_vsn: "1.0.0"
  ...
})

// Rejecting a PollingResponse
// Supplies a reason for declining
const reason = "User declined to authenticate."
WalletUtils.decline(reason)
```

##### <a id="identity"></a> `Identity`

This object is used to define the identity of the user.

```typescript
interface Identity extends ObjectBase {
  f_type: "Identity"
  address: string

>   keyId?: number

Reviewer 2: Is this required for the proposer on preauthz response? cc: @JeffreyDoyle

Reviewer 3: Yes this is for the proposer!
